This example shows how to use ld1 to generate and test a
PAW pseudopotential and how to use it in an SCF calculation.
The test case is the oxygen molecule.

The scripts *_pseudo generate, test and display pseudo-
potentials. They should not be run directly as they need
a few enviromental variables to be set from run_example.

1) Several different pseudopotentials are generated:
   * NC1 - hard norm conserving pseudopotential
   * NC2 - a softer NC pseudopotential
   * US1 - a Vanderbilt US pseudopotential with very hard
     augmentation charge
   * US2 - a softer Vanderbilt pseudopotential
   * PAW1 - a PAW pseudopotential using the hard augmentation
     charge of US1; this pseudopotential is not a real PAW as
     the augmentation charge does not have the exact multipoles,
     but only the exact monopole.
   * PAW2 - a PAW PP with softer augmentation charge, 
     taken from US2, this should give the same results
     as PAW1 thanks to PAW independence from augmentation shape.
   * PAW3 - a PAW PP using very soft "gaussian" shaped
     augmentation charge, this should be better than PAW1
     because the charge is choosen to cancel out the multipoles 
     of one-center charge.
   * PAW4 - as PAW3 but with bessel-shaped augmentation charge.

2) All the diferent PPs are used to compute the energy of an O1
   isolated atom for different cutoff values.
   PAW pseudopotential should converge (with respect to the 
   cutoff) as fast as US2 and give an energy at least as
   accurate as US1 and NC1.

3) Run a real SCF calculation for O2 molecule. PAW1 and PAW2
   pseudopotentials should give the same result as US1, while
   PAW3 and PAW4 should be even better.

If the script detects that a certain calculation has already been
completed (by grepping in .out files) it will skip it. So if you
wish to rerun all the example clean the results/ directory by hand.

Please note that, as there are stil some quirks in the code, the
driver script is designed not to exit on error, after each SCF
calculation a digit is displayed, if it is 0 than the run was
succesful; if it is "x" then the run was skipped, otherwive it
failed from som reason. 

Quirk: pw runs for PAW fail if cutoff = 18 Ry, while they
succeed for both lower and higher cutoffs. Todo: check with
different FFT libraries or ask a numerologist.
