In order to compute U for magnetic insulators one needs to follow
special procedure. Since we do not know a priori the magnetization
of the system, we perform a calculation with a finite 
starting_magnetization (in the range from -1 to +1) which requires 
to treat the system of interest as a metal (i.e. to use a smearing). 
However, using the smearing can create problems in the linear-response 
calculation of U, because in DFPT for metals at q=0 there is a metallic 
correction which is proportional to the inverse of the DOS at the Fermi 
level [see Eq.(79) in Rev. Mod. Phys. 73, 515 (2001)]. Therefore, if we 
treat the system as a fake metal, then the DOS at the Fermi level might 
be extremely small, which would lead to extremely large shift of the 
Fermi energy and as a consequence to the numerical divergence of the 
DFPT calculation. The solution to this problem is the following:

1. Perform a SCF calculation by treating the system as a fake magnetic
   metal. Namely, specify occupations = 'smearing' and set up some very
   small broadening parameter, and set up nspin=2 and starting_magnetization.
   Moreover, use the convergence threshold conv_thr not too small, because 
   otherwise there might be problems to converge the SCF calculation in 
   the next step.

2. Perform a SCF calculation by treating the system as a magnetic insulator 
   using the total magnetization obtained in the previous step. Extract from 
   the previous calculation the total magnetization and the number of bands 
   (Kohn-Sham states) and use them in this SCF calculation by using the 
   keywords tot_magnetization and nbnd, respectively. Some details:
   - set up the occupations to be fixed (this is the default in QE), namely
     occupations = 'fixed';
   - use nspin=2 and tot_magnetization, where the total magnetization must 
     be extracted from the previous step. The setup of tot_magnetization 
     is needed in order to let the code specify correctly the occupations 
     for spin up and spin down electrons (without specifying 
     tot_magnetization the code will set the number of spin up and spin down 
     electrons to be equal, which is wrong for ferromagnetic insulators).
     If tot_magnetization does not have a strict integer value then round it
     to the strict integer, because non-integer tot_magnetization cannot 
     be used in the second SCF calculation (the deviation from integer can be
     due to numerical noise); 
   - set up the number of bands (nbnd) equal to the number of bands in the
     previous run [without specifying nbnd in this calculation, the code will 
     set it to be equal to half the number of electrons, while in the 
     previous (metallic) calculation the number of bands was determined as 
     half of the number of electrons plus 20% - this mismatch would lead
     to numerical problems];
   - in order to save CPU time in the current SCF calculation it is 
     recommended to start from the wavefunctions and the potential obtained 
     in the previous step. To do so specify in the input startingpot='file' 
     and startingwfc='file'. If you ignore this and try to start the SCF 
     calculation from scratch, it may happen that the code will not converge 
     at all (because it would be hard for it to find the ground state and 
     the correct magnetization starting just from the condition of the 
     constrained magnetization). 

3. Perform the linear-response calculation of U using the HP code.
